---
title: You Live in a Surveillance State. Your Pets Should Too (With These WIRED-Tested
  Pet Cameras)
source_url: https://www.wired.com/gallery/best-pet-cameras/
source_site: Wired
source_slug: wired
scraped_at: '2026-07-12T10:00:17Z'
published: '2025-05-12T00:00:00Z'
description: Whether you’re near or far, keep an eye on your fur baby with our favorite
  pet cameras.
image: https://media.wired.com/photos/69e2d81939c62e0b45b3e304/191:100/w_1280,c_limit/The-Best-Pet-Cameras-of-2026.jpg
---

## Featured in this article

I never knew I needed a pet camera, but after trying out several models, I don’t think I can ever go into the office or on vacation without one set up at home. A home security camera can give you extra peace of mind when you’re out, and pet cameras specifically designed for our furry friends add in helpful features, like the ability to follow your pet around, engage in play, and dispense kibble. Connected to an app on your phone and with cloud storage options, these pet cameras—including our top pick for most people (and pets!), the **Furbo Mini 360° ($49)**, and our compact 360 rotating budget pick,** Petcube Cam 360 ($47)**—ensure you’ll never miss a moment in your pet’s life when you’re away (or at home).

For more peace of mind while you’re away from your pet, be sure to check out our related guides, like the Best Automatic Feeders, Best Cat Water Fountains, Best Automatic Litter Boxes, Best Indoor Security Cameras, and Best Outdoor Security Cameras.

*Updated July 2026: I’ve added the Enabot EBO Max FamilyBot and Lorex Connect 2K Dual-Lens Indoor Pan-Tilt Wi-Fi Camera. I’ve also ensured up-to-date links and prices throughout.*

## Compare Our Picks

| WIRED | TIRED | Resolution | Angle View | PTZ Capabilities | Image type | Storage | Audio | |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Furbo Mini 360° | Compact and affordable; 360-degree vision; treat dispensing | Treat dispensing noise is jarring; needs subscription service to access most features | 1080p HD | 360 degrees | Yes | Color, color night vision | Extra storage with paid plan | Two-Way | 
| Petcube Cam 360 | Ability to pan up and down; affordable price | Need paid care plan for the best features | 1080p HD | 360 degrees | Yes | Color, night vision | Only live feed; storage with paid Care plan | Two-way | 
| Imilab C30 Dual Security Camera | Dual lens (wide and telephoto); supports local storage; can track people | Limited frame rate; app is a little confusing | 3K (5MP) high definition resolution | 360 degrees | Yes (top camera) | Color, color and infrared night vision | Cloud and/or MicroSD memory card (up to 256 GB, not included) | Two-way | 
| Tkenpro 2K Pet Camera Treat Dispenser | 355-degree pan rotation; treat storage and dispensing; can be used with cloud or memory card | No ability to pan up and down | 2K high definition | 355 degrees | Yes | Color, night vision | Cloud and/or memory card (up to 128 GB, not included) | Two-way | 
| Furbo 360 Dog Camera | Can pan 360 degrees and dispense treats | Paid subscription service needed for many of the features | 1080p HD | 360 degrees | Yes | Color, color night vision | Extra storage with paid plan | Two-way | 
| SiiPet PawTrack AI Camera | No subscription required (although Care+ add-on is optional); uses Pet ID to track specific pets individually | Auto-tracking feature can be chaotic; doesn't always categorize pets or activities correctly; ships only in the US | 8MP | 360 degrees horizontal; 270 degrees vertical | Yes | Color, color night vision | 32 GB included; extra storage with paid plan | Two-way | 
| Enabot Rola Mini | Has 2K video resolution, battery lasts up to 25 days, has pet entertainment features | Manual charging via additional cord | 2K | 137 degrees | No, the whole machine moves | Color; black-and-white night vision | Built-in 32GB microSD card (supports up to 256MB memory) | Two-way | 
| Petlibro Scout Smart Camera | AI built-in to differentiate between and track pets; can recognize and organize videos of up to five pets; has 360-degree pan-and-tilt and two-way audio features; works with 2.5- and 5-GHz Wi-Fi | Camera disconnected with weak Wi-Fi and had to be manually replugged to reconnect; pricier than similar options on the market; need subscription plan to access most of the AI features; privacy concerns with cloud-stored footage being used to train AI | 1080p HD | 360 degrees | Yes | Color, black-and-white and color night vision | Paid subscription plan | Two-way | 
| Enabot Ebo SE FamilyBot | Traverses bumps, obstacles, and various terrain easily; heads back to convenient charging dock when battery is low | Video feed can lag; can't see higher-up view (because it drives on the floor) | 1080p | 118 degrees | No, the whole machine moves | Color; black-and-white night vision | Built-in 16GB SD card | Two-way | 
| Lorex Connect 2K Dual-Lens Indoor Pan-Tilt Wi-Fi Camera | Dual lenses with panning capabilities; auto-tracking and automatic person and pet detection | Color night vision was often in black-and-white; other reviewers had problems with disconnection and needing to reboot machine frequently | 2K | 360 degrees | Yes | Color, night vision | Only live feed; storage with microSD card (not included) | Two-way | 

## Others Tested

**Enabot Ebo Air 2 for $199**: This model from Enabot is an improved interactive robot toy and camera on wheels from the brand’s lineup. It’s got a 2K HD camera, two-way audio, and a laser toy, and you control the robot’s movements from your phone’s app. It’s lightweight and compact, and can easily maneuver around objects. While acting as a pet camera, the robot also entertains (or scares or confuses) your pet by making various animal noises, doing tricks like spinning and zigzagging, and displaying various “emotions” via its front screen. It also has a built-in laser toy that my cats actually played with, along with key features like 24/7 video recording with smart playback, motion detection, and activity alerts.

**Petcube Play 2 for $60**: This Petcube attempts to combine popular laser toys that cats love with a pet security cam, to mixed results. Like many other cameras from the brand’s lineup, the Play 2 has crystal-clear color and night vision, an extra-wide view, and two-way audio. The laser toy is supposed to auto-engage when motion is detected, but this often didn’t happen when I tested the camera. When the laser did work and happened to catch my cats’ attention, the feature turned off quickly. Plus, because the camera needed to sit high on a shelf to see the area, the laser was often too high for the cats to attempt to catch. You can manually play with the cat with the laser through the app, although it’s often laggy, and my cats ended up becoming more perplexed than playful when the laser was on. It’s a solid camera, but the toy aspect falls a bit flat.

**Furbo Mini for $17**: I love this super-affordable, 360-degree-rotating, basic pet camera. Furbo’s app is easy to use, the 1080 HD feed is clear, it can be mounted on a wall, and it has two-way audio. It’s connected to power via USB, but it works only with 2.4 GHz Wi-Fi, so beware. As is the case with most other pet cameras, to access the full features—like smart detection, alerts, and access to historical video footage—you’ll need Furbo Nanny, the paid subscription service. Luckily, Furbo gives you a 14-day free trial to see if the service is a good fit.

**Petcube Bites 2 Lite for $70**: This food-dispensing camera from Petcube has HD 1080p live streaming video, night vision up to 30 feet, the ability to zoom up to 8X, and two-way audio to talk to and hear your pets. There’s also an easily detachable plastic treat dispenser that holds up to 1.5 pounds of kibble, and you can toss treats remotely from the app, where you can also control the amount and distance. With the subscription service, the app alerts you when the device detects motion or sound, and logs it with playback video. I like the customization capabilities and clear video feed, but—like with other Petcube devices—you sort of need the extra Care plan to unlock all of the best features.

**Enabot Rola PetPal Robot Pet Companion for $200 (treat dispensing)**: This rolling pet camera has the best of intentions, but the sometimes glitchy app makes the combo pet camera/toy/feeder a little unpredictable. Through the app, you can watch your pets on the security camera and drive the robot around, pressing buttons to do tricks and dispense treats. You can watch the camera feed live from the app, but you can also schedule recordings, which are viewable via cloud Playback, and it assembles a 30-second “day in the life” compilation. The robot is also supposed to detect abnormal movement or sounds, like barking or broken glass, and send a smart alert to the owner with a time stamp while away from home. Through AI-powered pet recognition, the bot can also snap a picture of your pet, but the AI features were unreliable when I tested them.

**Petcube Cam for $32**: This simple, compact camera doesn't have all the bells and whistles of more advanced models, but it’s a great price for a reliable, basic pet camera. Like others in Petcube's lineup, it has a 1080p HD camera, night vision, and two-way audio. It sits on hinges and can angle upward and downward, with the option to flip the video feed in-app if you want to lay it horizontally. You'll need the brand's subscription Care plan to get any features beyond live feed. You can set a “motion zone” to only get notifications in a specific area, and you connect your phone’s location to the app, so that you’re alerted more often when away. You can also share the camera feed with others so they can watch remotely and specify the footage you want to share. This camera is basic, but it has a high-quality camera feed and advanced extras that make it a steal at this price.

**Catit Pixi Smart Mouse Camera for $56**: This cutie looks like a miniature mouse with oversize, magnetic feet that attach to a metal stand, and the mouse legs hinge so you can adjust the camera’s height and angle. While adorable, it’s expensive for what it is: The lens doesn't move, and it requires microSD to get video footage beyond a live feed. With the SD card, you can scroll through the video to see the goings-on from past days, record live footage, and save photos and videos to your smartphone’s camera roll. Even with the SD card, though, it was hard to pinpoint exactly which time you’re looking at when reviewing footage. The live video feed can be laggy, and there were connectivity issues a few times. It’s a tad expensive at this price point for its (lack of) capabilities.

**Closer Pets TreatView with Pet Camera for $100**: This solid pet cam features an HD camera, two-way communication, motion detection, a built-in memory card, and one-cup storage for kibble or treats, which you can schedule or dispense at random. The video feed was always crystal clear, although sound was a bit laggy and hard to hear well. The treat portions were huge, dispensing a heaping handful of kibble at even the lowest setting. The alert sound when dispensing was super jarring, and my pets were frightened by it—there was no way to silence it. Because of the placement of the hole for dispensing kibble, the camera is angled low, which made it hard to see the area I wanted. This is a solid pet camera, but its additional features become a burden rather than an asset.

## Not Recommended

**Enabot EBO Max FamilyBot for $510**: I’m usually a big fan of Enabot’s pet tech—especially when it comes to Enabot’s line of pet cameras, which are generally affordable and work consistently well without needing a pricey add-on Cloud storage system. This camera is touted as an AI family companion that can recognize pets and members of the household, remember routines and preferences, and come when called. Plus, it has the expected pet camera-on-wheels features, like two-way audio and video, night vision, and 4K imaging. I haven’t had my camera work properly since setup, with the robot consistently unable to connect and recharge while on the dock. I’m chatting with the support team, so I’m hoping to find a solution and will update the review once I’ve figured out whether it’s fixable or just a dud product.

How I Tested

To find the best pet cameras to test, I first looked for security cameras that had extra pet-specific features. I set up each camera individually, noting any difficulty or issues with initial setup, configuration with Wi-Fi, and speed and reliability of the camera feed. I tested each camera for at least a week (most, much longer) in various spots around my house and rigorously tested the extra features available on most of the cameras, like scheduled feedings, food-dispensing, playtime, and scheduled recordings, and I noted any issues I experienced. Over the months of testing, I went out of town several times and completely relied on these cams to keep an eye on my two children—I mean, cats.

Security cameras make it possible for you to watch your house (and pet) while you’re away, but pet cameras often have a few more pet-specific features, like the ability to dispense treats and interact with your furry friend via two-way speaker. These cameras with special features can help ease common pet issues like separation anxiety or boredom. The Enabot Rola PetPal Robot Pet Companion, for example, has attachments so you can remotely give your pet a treat or engage in “playtime.”

That's not to say that you can’t use a security camera as a pet cam, but like any other smart home device that connects to Wi-Fi, there's a chance it can be hacked and compromise your privacy. Make sure your Wi-Fi password is strong, and set up two-factor authentication with your camera’s app; it’s not a bad idea to keep it turned off when you’re home, as an extra precaution.

*Power up with unlimited access to* WIRED*. Get best-in-class reporting and exclusive subscriber content that's too important to ignore. Subscribe Today.*
