---
title: Four men admit running coastal cocaine ring - which was directed from prison
  cell
source_url: https://www.gazetteherald.co.uk/news/26279964.bridlington-scarborough-cocaine-ring-men-pleaded-guilty/?ref=rss
source_site: Gazette & Herald
source_slug: gazette-herald
scraped_at: '2026-07-14T17:25:07Z'
published: '2026-07-14T00:00:00Z'
description: Four men have admitted running a coastal cocaine ring - which was directed
  from inside a prison cell.
image: https://www.gazetteherald.co.uk/resources/images/21183337.jpg?type=og-image
---

FOUR men have admitted running a coastal cocaine ring - which was directed from inside a prison cell.

Humberside Police has unmasked four men behind a class A drugs operation after they all entered guilty pleas at Hull Crown Court yesterday (July 13).

Nathan Langton, 32, formerly of Burstall Hill in Bridlington, Liam Langton, 28, of Quay Street in Scarborough, and Lewis Wenn, 29, of The Close in Cottingham, each pleaded guilty to conspiring to supply class A cocaine.

  


- 
    **Counterfeit goods and 'serious chemical risk' toys seized at coastal car boot sale**
- 
    **'It is important that we trace him' - search for victim after attack near York bar**

Jordan Withey, 27, of St Georges Avenue, Bridlington, admitted conspiring to supply class A cocaine, possession with intent to supply class A cocaine, and possession of criminal property.

They are due to be sentenced at the end of the month (July 28).

The investigation into the group was launched in January 2026 when officers from the Kinetic Organised Crime Group Team identified a mobile number used to advertise and sell cocaine in Bridlington and surrounding areas.

Further enquiries revealed that the number was part of a wider network of burner phones used to send bulk messages advertising Class A drugs.

Detectives identified Liam Langton and Lewis Wenn - both of whom were out on licence from prison for drug offences - along with Jordan Withey, as key members of the gang.

After a series of warrants in Bridlington and Scarborough on March 4, Langton and Withey were arrested, with a search of Withey’s address uncovering a significant quantity of class A drugs and around £7,000 in criminal cash.

Langton was also arrested during a raid at his home and officers witnessed him attempting to dispose of a mobile phone, which was seized and later found to contain key evidence.

The phone contained communications with Lewis Wenn and conversations with his brother, Nathan Langton - who was directing the operation from inside his prison cell.

Mobile data analysis, CCTV footage, and financial records established that the group worked together to advertise, prepare, and distribute cocaine, police said.

CCTV showed Lewis Wenn purchasing a top-up voucher for one of the drug line phones before leaving in a vehicle insured by Liam Langton.

It was also established that Jordan Withey provided a base for storing and supplying the drugs, and was responsible for holding cash generated by the operation.

  (L-R) Liam Langton, Lewis Wenn, and Jordan Withey 

*(Image: Humberside Police)*

Both Withey and Liam Langton were detained, questioned, and later charged and remanded in custody.

On Wednesday, April 1, Lewis Wenn was located at a holiday property near South Cave; two mobile phones recovered from the property contained messages arranging cocaine deals.

Messages between Wenn and a contact saved as “Fat” (traced to Nathan Langton) discussed the preparation and distribution of drugs and boasted about the money he was making, despite being behind bars.

He also referred to plans involving drones to deliver prohibited items into the prison.

On Thursday, May 7, a specialist prison search team entered Nathan Langton’s cell and recovered a concealed mobile phone, which he originally attempted to hide by diving into bed.

The phone had been used to contact the drug line and associates outside prison, but once the phone was seized, the drugs line stopped operating.

Constable Karl Freeman said: "This investigation is a perfect example of organised crime not being glamorous or untouchable.

"It’s a group of individuals motivated by money, willing to exploit addiction and bring harm into our communities.

"Even after three of his associates had been arrested, Nathan still tried to keep the drugs line alive, convinced he could stay one step ahead, which inevitably failed."

Humberside Police said that they will continue to work with the Home Office Clear Hold Build Initiative in Bridlington to stop organised crime and selling drugs.

Constable Freeman added: “Thanks to the dedication of our officers, specialist analysts and our partners within the prison service, four people who played significant roles in this network face the consequences. Thank you to members of the public who continue to report information to us.

"Every organised crime group we dismantle makes our communities safer, disrupts the supply of dangerous drugs and sends a clear message that there is nowhere criminals can hide, not even behind prison walls."

Members of the public with information are urged to contact police via the non-emergency 101 line or by speaking to local officers, and to call 999 in an emergency.

Information can also be reported anonymously through the independent charity Crimestoppers by calling 0800 555 111.
