---
title: MoD cancels army training in Kenya over powers to prosecute British soldiers
source_url: https://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2026/jul/23/british-army-cancel-training-kenya-defence-agreement-dispute
source_site: The Guardian
source_slug: guardian
scraped_at: '2026-07-23T14:27:38Z'
published: '2026-07-23T00:00:00Z'
description: September exercise called off after Kenya raises concerns over funding
  and jurisdiction for criminal offences
image: https://i.guim.co.uk/img/media/cc893372a6e05bc6d33bcfd80ee3e1949232e157/116_0_3774_3021/master/3774.jpg?width=1200&height=630&quality=85&auto=format&fit=crop&precrop=40:21,offset-x50,offset-y0&overlay-align=bottom%2Cleft&overlay-width=100p&overlay-base64=L2ltZy9zdGF0aWMvb3ZlcmxheXMvdGctZGVmYXVsdC5wbmc&enable=upscale&s=87c4802348b05ad06a2e6940ab09f509
---

The British army has been forced to cancel training for its troops in Kenya after the Kenyan government refused to ratify a bilateral defence agreement.

While the UK government wanted to renew the existing agreement, Kenyan lawmakers had sought changes to give local authorities greater powers to hold British soldiers accountable for any offences committed in the country.

According to the Kenyan news outlet the Daily Nation, the dispute centres on which cases Kenya will retain primary jurisdiction over, while the amount of money Britain pays Kenya to host the training camp has also been a sticking point.

The chair of the Kenyan national assembly’s defence, intelligence and foreign relations committee, Nelson Koech, said the two governments were “actively engaging to address these outstanding issues”.

As a result of the Kenyan government’s decision, a planned exercise involving the 1st Battalion the Duke of Lancaster’s Regiment, which was due to begin in September, has been cancelled.

A Ministry of Defence spokesperson said: “The UK highly values its relationship with Kenya, which is underpinned by mutual benefit, respect and cooperation. The UK-Kenya Defence Partnership is one of the great strengths of our relationship. Our joint training and operations with the Kenyan Defence Forces are keeping both Kenyan and British people safe.

“It is with regret that the necessary licences required to allow training to take place in Laikipia later this year have not been forthcoming. As a result, the planned training will now be conducted at an alternative location outside Kenya.”

Kenya also benefits from training of its own armed forces at BATUK, the British army base near Nanyuki, and the presence of British troops is valuable for the economy.

The MoD spokesperson added: “We recognise the disappointment this decision will cause for those who would have benefited from the economic activity generated by the exercise.”

They said the UK government remained “committed to our defence partnership with Kenya”, adding that the UK would “continue to engage closely with the Kenyan government to support the resumption of training in-country at the earliest appropriate opportunity”.

However, there has been sustained pressure from Kenyan people opposed to the British army’s continued presence. Last year, a report to the Kenyan parliament into the base alleged human rights violations, environmental destruction and sexual abuse by British soldiers.

The most high-profile case linked to the base is the death of Agnes Wanjiru, in which a British soldier has been charged with murder. Kenya has retained jurisdiction in the case and an extradition hearing is due to take place in November. Robert Purkiss denies the single charge of murder.

Legal proceedings had stalled since Wanjiru’s death in 2012, but advanced under John Healey’s tenure as defence secretary. As shadow defence secretary, he had called on the previous government to do more to progress the case.

Koech said the committee had called for “stronger accountability measures, including jurisdiction over serious offences, enhanced protection for local communities, and implementation of recommendations arising from the BATUK inquiry”.
