---
title: We’ve Tested More Than 100 iPhone 17 Cases for the Ultimate Guide
source_url: https://www.wired.com/gallery/best-iphone-17-cases-and-accessories/
source_site: Wired
source_slug: wired
scraped_at: '2026-07-07T15:09:48Z'
published: '2025-09-20T00:00:00Z'
description: Protect your expensive iPhone 17, iPhone Air, iPhone Pro, or iPhone 17e
  with our favorite cases and screen protectors.
image: https://media.wired.com/photos/68ce2fd1550f612a902e2a42/191:100/w_1280,c_limit/iPhone%2017%20Cases%20Hero%20Image%20SOURCE%20Julian%20Chokkattu.jpg
---

## Featured in this article

Even the latest iPhones need a case. The Ceramic Shield 2 glass on the front of the iPhone 17 may be three times as scratch-resistant as its predecessors, but that hasn't prevented us from experiencing scratches on our iPhone Air and iPhone 17. Glass is still glass, folks.

The best iPhone 17 cases and screen protectors can work together to keep your phone in pristine condition for as long as possible, aka when you decide to sell your iPhone to buy a new one. We have tested more than 100 cases and screen protectors to find the very best. Whether you have an iPhone 17 Pro Max or a new iPhone 17e, we've got something for you. We're continuously testing new cases and accessories—if there's something you want us to check out, drop a comment.

Be sure to read our other iPhone accessory guides, including the Best Apple 3-in-1 Chargers, Best MagSafe Wallets, and Best MagSafe Accessories. You might also be interested in the Best iPhones, Best AirPods, Best iPads, and Best MacBooks.

*Updated July 2026: We’ve added the Ninja Labs Flex Pouch Phone Case and Mophie Check Case.*

Your Old Case Won’t Fit—With One Exception

Sometimes, new iPhones have the same dimensions as older ones, so you can reuse a case. That's sadly not the *case* with the iPhone 17 lineup. Things are different enough that most older iPhone cases will not fit. Don't just throw out your old case though. If it's in decent condition, you could donate it to a place like Goodwill or look for accessory companies that have recycling services, like Casetify or PopSockets. Your carrier or local Best Buy and Staples may even be able to help.

The only exception is the iPhone 17e. You *can reuse* iPhone 16e cases, but the new iPhone 17e has MagSafe, so you'll want a case that allows for it. There's no point in having a MagSafe phone if your case doesn't play well with magnetic accessories.

What Is the Camera Plateau and Camera Control?

You'll see these two words mentioned throughout this guide. They're relatively new additions to the iPhone.

**Camera Plateau** is Apple's ridiculous name for the camera module on the back of the iPhone 17 Pro and iPhone 17 Pro Max. The entire top quarter of the phone is raised, like a plateau, creating a distinctive design unlike any iPhone that came before.

**Camera Control** is a new button that was introduced in the iPhone 16 models. It sits below the power button and lets you press it once to open the camera and again to take a picture. A long-press captures video. Outside the camera app, a long press can trigger Apple's Visual Intelligence feature, which is kind of like Google Lens. Case makers leave a cutout for this button instead of covering it. This is because you can slide your finger over the Camera Control button to change camera modes. However, some manufacturers are using glass buttons and other methods instead of a cutout, offering a much more symmetrical design.

Make Sure You Buy a MagSafe Case

All of the cases we recommend in this guide have MagSafe unless otherwise noted. A MagSafe case will have a ring of magnets inside to make sure magnetic accessories stay attached. Otherwise, the case will just weaken the magnets. You should absolutely explore the world of MagSafe because there are so many kinds of accessories to play around with. Check our our guides:

What Size iPhone Do You Have?

If you're unsure which iPhone model you have, you can head to **Settings > General > About Phone** and look at ** the Model Number**. Some case makers will identify case models by screen size, so here's a handy guide.

- The iPhone 17 has a 6.3-inch screen
- The iPhone Air has a 6.5-inch screen
- The iPhone 17 Pro has a 6.3-inch screen
- The iPhone 17 Pro Max has a 6.9-inch screen
- The iPhone 17e has a 6.1-inch screen

Note that just because the iPhone 17 and iPhone 17 Pro share the same screen size doesn't mean you can mix cases between them. Their dimensions are different, and so are the designs.

What's the Deal With Scratchgate?

You may have seen chatter online about iPhone 17 models showing scratches very easily. This seems to be largely affecting the redesigned iPhone 17 Pro and iPhone 17 Pro Max. Apple uses anodized aluminum, but due to the sharp edges of the Camera Plateau module, the anodized layer doesn't adhere as well to the edges. That makes scratches more visible on the corners and around the camera lenses. You can read more details about it in iFixit's blog post.

What you can do to get around this problem is buy a case that covers the Camera Plateau rather than one that leaves it open. Our top pick, the Native Union Active Case, is a good example of a case that keeps the aluminum covered.

How We Test Cases

Unfortunately, we cannot conduct drop tests with the limited number of iPhones we have. However, we install every case that comes our way onto the latest iPhones, inspect the cutouts for the speakers and microphones, make sure the buttons are responsive, and analyze the edges around the screen and cameras to see how raised they are. We also test them with MagSafe accessories to ensure the magnetic connection is strong. And where possible, we pass the cases on to people we know so that we can get any feedback on long-term performance.

For screen protectors, we install each of them per the manufacturer's instructions and tools, and we note how easy the process is.

## Other Screen Protectors We’ve Tested

**Spigen AluminaCore Tempered Glass Screen Protector:** Spigen's Glas.tR EZ Fit screen protector has all the necessary cleaning tools to wipe down the display before installation, and its application tool is very similar to Smartish and Dbrand, though there's no pull tab. You remove the backing from the protector, place the tool over the iPhone, then press down on the other side. It creates more air bubbles that you have to deal with, but it's manageable. It's super affordable, and you get two in the box, though the edges are a tad sharp.

**Caudaube CrystalShield Elite AR:** Caudaube's screen protector is a very close second to our top Dbrand pick. The installation is nearly identical, and the company includes the tools you need to clean the phone's screen. The tempered aluminosilicate glass has a very soft and smooth feel to it, with especially curvy edges that don't feel sharp. It also extends all the way around, close to the edges, further than many other screen protectors. It's a shame you only get one in the box.

**Nomad ProShield Glass:** Here's another aluminosilicate screen protector made by Corning, the company that makes the glass on most smartphones. Instead of a pull-tab, you put the phone in the application tool, then close the tool like a book and push down as glass sticks to glass. It worked surprisingly well, with just a few air bubbles. We still feel like the edges of the protector are a little sharper than we'd like, compared to the Dbrand and Smartish. It also only comes with one.

**ESR Armorite Screen Protector and Privacy Protector:** This pack is a better value than Smartish's screen protectors, because you get three tempered glass sheets instead of two. All the necessary equipment is here, from an application tool to wet wipes. While it uses a pull-tab, we found Smartish's and Dbrand's systems easier to use overall. We also tried ESR's Privacy Protector, which effectively blocked the screen when viewed from the left or right. We didn't see a major impact on sharpness or color accuracy. We tested**ESR's Armorite Pro** with tempered glass made by Corning, the company that makes most of the glass found on smartphones. The edge feels a tiny bit sharp, but it was otherwise easy to apply and looks great.

**Astropad Fresh Coat Anti-Reflective Screen Protector:** Apple already added an anti-reflective coating to all of the new iPhones, but this Astropad screen protector takes it even further. Installation was easy with the pull-tab application system, though we got far more air bubbles with it than with any of the other pull-tab installations. It actually does work and cuts glare. We compared it with another iPhone without a screen protector and noticed glare was less pronounced with the Astropad. There's no real loss in color accuracy or sharpness. We compared photos on the two phones, and they looked virtually identical. We haven't found much reason to complain about glare on the iPhone 17 screen, but if something like that has bothered you before, the Fresh Coat might be up your alley.

## Other Great Cases We’ve Tested

We've tested more than 100 cases for the iPhone 17 lineup. Not all of them deserve a top spot above, but many are still great and come in fun designs and styles. Check 'em out.

**Bitmo Lab Gamebaby Case:**“This is freaking awesome,” are the first words we said once we got the Gamebaby set up and working with the Delta retro game emulator. This is a phone case styled like a Nintendo Game Boy, but you can pop off the bottom piece and put it over your phone screen to emulate the original portable gaming console, physical buttons and all, while you emulate old games (assuming you're somewhat versed on how to do that legally). The buttons basically have capacitive sensors on the underside that tap the screen, corresponding with the virtual buttons. The only issue we had was that my down button on the D-pad didn't align properly, so we had to shift the whole pad slightly lower for it to work. That's not great, but it didn't stop us from taking a 30-minute break to play* Pokémon Crystal*. As a case, it's quite plasticky and slippery, but the buttons are clicky, if a bit rattly. For $40, we don't mind; it's super fun.

**Spigen Classic LS Case:** This retro-inspired case makes your iPhone look like an old Macintosh computer. It completely covers the camera plateau, and there's also a lanyard strap hole. It's not the grippiest, but it has some bulk on the edges and corners, which makes it a bit easier to hold. If you're a longtime Apple fan, this case can lend your phone a unique look while still offering protection. It's only available for the iPhone 17 Pro and Pro Max.

**Pela Case With MagSafe:** We love the rubbery texture of Pela's cases, and they're sustainably made in Canada from a nontoxic, plant-based biopolymer by this Certified B Corp. Pela also has dozens and dozens of gorgeous designs to choose from, but we really like this crocodile pattern. We don't think it's the most durable-feeling case—the edges could be a little more raised over the display—and annoyingly, the buttons are quite stiff (particularly the Action Button). At least Pela now includes MagSafe connectivity, though you have to check off “With MagSafe” when ordering to ensure the magnetic strip is included in the case. We've attached various magnetic accessories to it without issue.

**OpenCase:** OpenCase is a rare accessory maker trying something different. Instead of adding a MagSafe ring inside the case, there's a big cutout on the back. Traditionally, adding magnetic accessories means a bulkier phone, but with a cutout design, you can reduce the overall thickness. The company makes a few accessories that perfectly slot into the design, like a wallet, grip, and even a filler plate for when you aren't using a MagSafe accessory. The case itself is quite nice, with a leatherette finish that feels soft, very clicky metal buttons, and a sapphire crystal button for Camera Control. We just wish it came in some fun colors. But the main problem? We tested it with several magnetic accessories, and while we think*most* will fit perfectly into the cutout area, there are a few we weren't able to use. For example, this PopSockets battery grip wouldn't stay attached because it's larger than the cutout. That's something to keep in mind if you like the idea of the open case.

**Bellroy Cases:** We have tried three of Bellroy's cases for the iPhone 17 range: the Venture, 3 Card, and the Innovera Edition. The Venture is our favorite of the lot. It feels rugged and durable, though the material feels very slippery (probably why it comes with a built-in wrist strap. The 3 Card phone case is very bulky, but at least it lives up to its name—it can fit three cards! However, the design disables any MagSafe connectivity and wireless charging, so that's a no-go. The Innovera Edition is the company's leather-alternative material made from a bio-based polymer and postconsumer recycled nylon. It has a nice texture and looks clean, with clicky buttons and decently raised edges around the display and cameras. None of these particularly blew us away, but they're worth considering if you like the look.

**Bluebonnet Leather Cases:** We think Bluebonnet's best case is its no-frills Minimalist Full-Grain Leather case; there is no branding on the exterior, if you want the clean look. The Camera Control button is a nice new addition, and the other metal buttons are clicky. However, I don't like the company's wallet cases that much. The Wallet Case blocks wireless charging and MagSafe for an integrated card storage solution, but you can only fit two cards, and I wish there was a better way to pry them out. The Executive Wallet Case Folio can fit more cards (I was able to insert two cards into each of the two slots), and there's a generous cash pocket. However, once you have items in there, the top piece becomes so bulky that the folio doesn't close properly. (It's clearly designed just to store two cards and maybe a couple of bills.) I think Nomad's Leather folio above is the better option.

**Aohi Future MagArmor Pro Case:** Aohi claims its case can protect your iPhone from heights up to 16 feet. Why are you that high? No idea. But this confidence comes from a reinforced aluminum-alloy camera frame, raised edges, and a non-Newtonian fluid P4U polymer that hardens on impact and reverts to being soft afterward. Unfortunately, it's very hard for us to vet these claims and test this extreme drop protection, so you'll have to take the company's word for it. Frankly, at the end of the day, we are just not amazed by the case design. It looks fine? The buttons are clicky, and the magnets are quite strong.

**Aulumu A17 Cases:** Aulumu's A17 cases come in several different types, like aramid fiber or a frosted clear, and the designs are techy and fun. (Does it really need to say, “Explore Urban Tech & Future Aesthetic” on the back, though?) It's a pretty thick case, but the camera protection is excellent, the edges around the display are raised, and the buttons are clicky. However, the buttons are a little rattly, even when the phone is in the case, which is odd. The main claim to fame here is the company's cooling tech, with passive cooling fins to vent heat and a thermal silicone gel on the inside. After running*Genshin Impact* for a bit, we*did* see a drop in temperature of roughly 1 degree. It's small, but not nothing. If you're a heavy gamer, this may be helpful.

**Society6 Colorful Offset Checkers Case:** Society6 is a great place to shop for cases with fun designs, and there are tons to choose from. The company offers MagSafe cases, so make sure you choose that option when ordering. We tested the version with the dual-layer shield, which has a soft silicone liner on the inside and a hardshell exterior. The construction doesn't feel amazing—we noticed the silicone shell sticks out a bit from the hardshell, but we were able to push it back into place. It should cover your bases, though it is specifically for anyone who prioritizes design first.

**Freitag F385 Circ-Case:** We adore Freitag's designs for its bags and other accessories. The company reuses truck tarps for these products, giving new life to something that otherwise would have been sent to the landfill. The designs are bright and bold! The case is quite dull on its own, made from recycled ski boots. The buttons are clicky, edges are raised, but there's no MagSafe. However, it's designed to be used with the company's wallets—the wallet slides into place. We can fit about two cards in there, and you use the strap to pull the cards out, which is pretty ingenious. Like most wallet cases, this is only for folks willing to forgo MagSafe and wireless charging. It'd be great if Freitag made a MagSafe version of the wallet, though!

**PopSockets MagSafe Cases:** PopSockets is known for its grips, but this is just a standard-fare case, albeit with tons of fun designs to choose from. Pictured is the Mirror Abalone, which is shiny and gorgeous, with magnets inside for solid MagSafe connectivity. It's a fairly slim case with grippy edges and a lip around the display and camera; frankly, we don't have much to complain about here. Oh, wait, we wish the Camera Control were a button instead of a cutout.

**OhSnap! Snap Case:** OhSnap! is known for its grips, but everyone has to make a case, too, it seems. The soft-touch plastic is nice, but it's a little slippery. Once again, the aluminum buttons are rattly like some other cases we've tried, though at least you get extra-strength magnets baked in. We can confirm that it required a bit more effort to pull off magnetic accessories from this case than from other cases. OhSnap's calling card, however, is its Snap Grip 5, which is a MagSafe grip that has magnets on the exterior, allowing you to attach magnetic accessories on top or even wirelessly charge the phone without having to remove the grip. It works!

**OtterBox Defender Series Pro XT Case:** We're so used to OtterBox's Defender series having solid colors that the clear design here threw us off. We don't hate it, but it does show smudges easily. (There are other styles you can choose from.) We initially advised against this case because the Camera Control button was way too responsive. Our grip would constantly activate the camera, which was annoying. That seemed to be a real problem with the case, so OtterBox sent a newer version, and we're happy to report that this is no longer an issue. It feels just as protective thanks to its dual-layer design (a polycarbonate frame sits on top and a rubber slipcover rests underneath), and the USB-C charging port is protected. Just know that the case makes the phone considerably wider.

**Nomad Modern Leather Case:** Nomad's leather cases look and feel great, and they're paired with a well-built polycarbonate frame that doesn't feel like an afterthought. There are three main case types to choose from: Modern, Traditional, and Rugged. All of them have clicky buttons, a dedicated glass button for the Camera Control instead of a cutout, and MagSafe.**The Modern Leather Case** is our favorite of the bunch. It uses vegetable-tanned Horween leather, but the polycarbonate frame offers extra protection around the sides of the iPhone.**The Traditional Leather Case** is great if you want a pure leather case. There's no polycarbonate frame, so it won't be as protective, but the edges around the camera module and screen are slightly more raised, and it features the same anodized aluminum buttons.**The Rugged Leather Case** is like the Modern case, but more protective. It has a polycarbonate frame and also adds thermoplastic urethane bumpers at the corners for extra impact protection. The edges are raised even more here to keep the glass away from surfaces.

**Woolnut Leather Case:** Woolnut's case looks and feels great, and it was hard to choose between it and the Mujjo and Nomad options above. Ultimately, we just didn't want “WOOLNUT” emblazoned on the back. Still, the full-grain Scandinavian leather feels exquisite, the aluminum buttons are responsive, and Camera Control is an actual capacitive button layered on top rather than a cutout. The edges are decently raised, and the thermoplastic urethane bumper gives it a bit more structure.

**Wave MagSafe Case:** You can see the MagSafe ring's outline on the back of this case, which makes it look a little cheap. The Action Button is also a bit mushy, the Camera Control button is a cutout here, and the case material is slippery. But it's otherwise fine, if a bit dull (there are at least lots of colors to choose from). The main reason to buy this case, if you don't mind those flaws, is that this is a biodegradable case made from wheat straw. If you're environmentally conscious and don't want just another plastic case, recycled or not, this is a great alternative. Every purchase you make also contributes to environmental charities, like Surfers Against Sewage and 1% for the Planet.

**Casekoo Pearl Sparkle 360 Magic Stand Case:** It's a bit bulky, but this sparkly, bright orange case from Casekoo (also available in tons of other designs) looks great. We love the bright, glossy TPU edges, and the sparkles on the clear back are a fun touch. It's a nice match for the orange iPhone 17 Pro, though we didn't have that model to test whether the color matches perfectly. There's also a built-in kickstand with MagSafe, so you can attach magnetic accessories to the back, and it can even wirelessly charge through the ring. The kickstand has a satisfying clicking sound as you rotate it, and you can prop the iPhone up in landscape or portrait (or use it as a grip!). We prefer Zagg's more subtle kickstand approach, but this is a loud-and-proud case worth considering.

**Spigen Cases:** We tried a few other Spigen cases. The**Nano Pop** has a fun color contrast and checks off all the boxes, though we found the rear material shows dust and smudges easily. The**Ultra Hybrid T case** has stiff buttons, but is otherwise OK.

**Twelve South Case:** It's a little shocking just how bare and boring these cases are from Twelve South. We often quite enjoy Twelve South products, but these are a bit too dull for us. The silicone shell also attracts a lot of dust, though at least all the buttons are clicky, even the real button layered over Camera Control.

**Burga Tough and Elite Cases:** We tried both the Elite and Tough cases from Burga. The main reason to buy either is that Burga has tons of designs to choose from. The cases are just OK, though. On the Elite, the buttons are a bit mushy, and Burga went with a cutout for the Camera Control button. It's also very slippery, though at least there's MagSafe support. On the Tough, the buttons are a little more responsive, but they stick out enough that they feel sharp as you run your fingers over the edges of the phone. The glossy plastic also feels a bit cheap.

**Totallee Cases:** Totallee, known for its ultra-slim cases, has finally come up with a naming structure for the various models it makes.**The Doberman** is its most protective case, with a rubber bumper around the edges, though we didn't find it that grippy. We like the translucent design, but it's a shame the Camera Control button is a cutout on the case.**The Spy** case is a clear, solid case, yet it is still extremely thin. The buttons are clicky, though access to Camera Control is still a cutout.**The Scarf** is Totallee's bread and butter. You can get it in multiple colors, but this is a shockingly paper-thin case that barely feels there. Don't expect any serious protection from it. All of these cases have non-MagSafe versions if you don't care for the magnetic connector. They're all totally (heh) fine cases, but we prefer the ultra-slim picks above.

**Native Union (Re)Classic Case:** We like the crocodile leather-like texture of this case, and the aluminum buttons are a nice touch, though they feel slightly stiff. Unlike the Active Case we like so much, the Camera Control button here is a cutout in the case. It's a solid option, one made from recycled materials, but the Active Case is a better buy.

**Alto Wood Case:** We love a good wood case, but we have mixed feelings about Alto's cases. You can get custom laser-carved prints, like from its Wildlife or Flora series; you can even add your own image. But these look a little tacky. Why hide that gorgeous wood? You can choose from a range of wood styles, from olive wood to cherry. We'd probably grab something from the company's Burl & Exotic Series. The case itself is OK. The rubber bumper around the edges is grippy, but feels a little cheap. The power button is solid, and there's a cutout for the Camera Control button, but the volume rocker feels a tiny bit mushy.

**Beats Rugged Case:** This case is the opposite of the Beats Kickstand case listed in the avoid section below. Where that case was super slippery, this one offers a much better grip. The buttons are clicky, the display and cameras are protected, and it looks very pretty. It's not the grippiest case, nor is it the most rugged, despite its name. We prefer the Camera Control button design on the Nomad Rugged Case, which has a thicker bumper. It's available for the iPhone 17, iPhone 17e, iPhone 17 Pro, and iPhone 17 Pro Max.

**BodyGuardz Performance Pro and Pulse Cases:** BodyGuardz's Pulse case is a fine option that comes in a fun matcha color and includes a wrist strap. The Camera Control button is nicely elevated. Look along the side edges, and you'll see vents—these help disperse heat, along with the cooling gel on the inner lining. We've tried testing this in the past and haven't noticed much of a difference in gaming performance on the phone. The directional speaker is something that does actually work. Basically, the case directs the audio from the rear speakers toward you instead of downward, and you can hear a marginal difference. The Performance Pro takes it to the max with larger vents, and it adds a kickstand. We just don't like how the case feels when you hold it.

**Burton Goods Heritage Leather Case:** Burton Goods is from the creator of Pad & Quill, which shut down in 2023 due to bankruptcy. The company was known for its classy leather cases, and that has continued with the new brand. The Heritage will make you feel as if you're sitting in a cozy armchair by a fireplace in an old English study. The full-grain leather feels supple (and smells great), and the stitching gives it even more character. There's MagSafe baked in, a microfiber interior, and all the buttons are responsive. The edges are raised well around the display and Camera Plateau, too. You can pair it with the Heritage MagSafe Wallet Stand, which is a magnetic wallet with a kickstand. We were able to fit about three credit cards, though the top cover flap makes it a little hard to remove the cards.

**Rhinoshield SolidX and Clear Cases:** We have no qualms with either of these Rhinoshield cases. The SolidX is robust, thick, and protective, with clicky buttons and MagSafe. The Clear case has extremely clicky buttons that stick out quite a bit, and it feels very sturdy. There's just not much else to them, other than the fact that the company uses a proprietary material called Mono. It's 100 percent recycled and is essentially a single compound, making it easier to recycle.

**OtterBox Symmetry Series Case:** OtterBox's Symmetry series is its most fun lineup because there are usually several nifty designs to choose from. Case in point, look at this adorable cactus embroidered case! It's a fun texture to have on the back of your phone, and it's super cute. This version is actually made from cactus leather, but other Symmetry cases are standard plastic. The basic Symmetry cases are overpriced at $60, but the embroidered versions are worth considering. While these have MagSafe baked in, the embroidery*does* weaken the magnetic connection. It still charged my iPhone, but I wouldn't trust it on a MagSafe car dock.

**OtterBox Commuter Series Case:** OtterBox's Commuter case is simple and inoffensive. You have a few muted colors to choose from, and the dual-layer design has a rubber slipcover surrounded by a harder plastic shell. I like the rubber edges as they help with grip, too. It checks off all the boxes—even the USB-C port is covered up—but it's just not very exciting.

**OtterBox Figura Case:** I like the way this case wraps around my phone like a glove, but ultimately, it's a bit too slippery for me to consider it for daily use. It doesn't look like the classic bulky design you might think of when you think of OtterBox. It's still decently protective, but I find the buttons difficult to press as well—which might be a benefit to you if you tend to hit them accidentally.

**Mous Super Thin Aramid Fibre Case:** Several companies now make aramid fiber ultrathin cases, and honestly, you can't go wrong with most of them. We prefer the subtle texture of Pitaka's case (see above), but Mous's Super Thin is a close second, and it even comes in a clear option with MagSafe. I very much like the raised protection for the camera, though the Camera Control button is exposed, and there's less protection on the top and bottom, unlike Pitaka's case. As always, this sturdy case is extremely thin and won't provide the best protection, especially for the screen, but it'll cover the usual wear and tear. Pair it with a screen protector.

**Thinborne Super Thin Aramid Fiber Case:** It's super thin like the Pitaka and Mous aramid fiber cases, with baked-in MagSafe, but Pitaka's designs are better. All of the buttons are exposed here, including the Camera Control. Thinborne includes a screen protector, but you have to freehand the installation as it doesn't come with an application tool.

**Zagg iPhone 17 Cases:** We have tried all of Zagg's cases, and they're all solid, though we like the Sedona (see above) the most. Here are some thoughts on the lineup. The**Crystal Palace Snap With Stand** has the same great kickstand as the Sedona, as well as an actual button for Camera Control, but this case is clear. It's a great way to show off your iPhone's color, though it smudges easily. The**Manhattan Snap** ditches the kickstand and is silicone, but it attracts too much dust and lint; it*is* very soft, though. The**Milan Snap** has a fun iridescent color, and the**Santa Cruz Snap With Stand** has a striking, colorful bumper that's grippy, but the Camera Control button is a cutout. The**Luxe Snap** might be my favorite of the lot in terms of design, with a fun texture on the back and grooved edges, but there's no kickstand. Finally, the**Rainier Case With Kickstand** is the newest in Zagg's lineup, and if you want robust protection, this one will satisfy. It's a two-shell case with a hard and thick bumper, and seriously raised edges for maximum screen protection with extra-thick corners. Even the USB-C port is covered up. You get the same great kickstand, but the buttons are a bit mushy.

**ESR Clear, Soft, and Tough Magnetic Case:** ESR has three versions of this case, each in a different material. The Soft employs soft-touch silicone and is quite nice, with clicky buttons and a dedicated Camera Control button. The Clear is, well, clear, and the Tough uses a hard plastic shell. None of them is particularly exciting, but what makes them unique is the built-in kickstand that surrounds the camera module. It's a neat idea, but you can only prop these phones up in landscape orientation. Technically, you can put them upright in portrait mode, but the phone has to be upside down. Either way, the Zagg recommendation above is a much better kickstand case.

**Smartish Gripzilla, Gripmunk, and Wallet Slayer Vol. 2 Cases:** These cases are nice and affordable. The Gripzilla has textured edges that make for a nice grip, though it's nowhere near as grippy as Dbrand's Grip case (above). The Gripmunk has some ridges to help with grip, and the Wallet Slayer Vol. 2 lets you stuff several credit cards on the back. However, the wallet interferes with MagSafe and has no magnets inside, so it cuts you off from wireless charging. It also makes the case very thick. They're all solid cases for the money, and you should shop directly from Smartish as it has some exclusive designs on its store.

**Matter HT Snap Cases:** Formerly known as Atom Studios, these “Snap” cases aren't actually cases. They're just a backing you can magnetically stick to your phone to protect the rear glass. The company offers them in clear, wood-fiber, or agave materials. They all look nice and feel great, especially the Clear version for the iPhone Air. However, we don't see the point of these. They don't cover the edges at all, which is where you'll most likely see scuffs and scratches after a drop. We'd much rather go for an ultrathin case that wraps the edges of a phone, or something like the Arc Pulse.

**UAG Cases:** We have tested the full suite of UAG's cases, from the Plyo and the Monarch Pro to the Metropolis LT and Plasma XTE. If we had to pick one, it'd be the**Pathfinder**. We love the bright yellow color and the bold design, but it works. It makes us feel * tactical*, like we're about to scale a building and infiltrate it. The problem with all of UAG's cases is that they're expensive, and none of them feature a dedicated button for Camera Control; it's all a cutout. (We've just come to really prefer having an actual button on the case!) We also like the**UAG Dot** and its fun translucent case.

**Mophie Check iPhone Case:** This slim, stylish phone case has an integrated camera button, a soft material that feels pleasant (if a bit slippery), and a bumper that protects the Camera Plateau. I like that it's trendy and minimalist and very lightweight. Just make sure to add a phone grip if you have butterfingers like I do.

## Check Out These Crossbody Straps and Lanyards

Apple's Crossbody Strap is pricey, but there are so many fun colors to choose from, and you can also color-match them with your iPhone. It's made from 100 percent recycled PET yarn, and the strap slides smoothly across your chest. Adjusting the strap is fairly easy with the stainless steel sliding mechanism. I (Julian) have a 6'4" frame and was able to make it *way* too long for my body. (The max strap length is 82 inches.) It's best paired with Apple's official case as it has the connection points at the bottom, but you should be able to use it with cases that have lanyard holes.

**Orbitkey Crossbody Strap:** I really did not think this strap could work. I was looking for a crossbody strap that attaches to your phone via dedicated loops on the case itself, rather than a card that sits inside your case, because those sometimes pull loose or come undone. Sadly, Orbitkey uses a card. A little reinforced loop pops out of the bottom of your phone case—you just clip a stainless steel ring that holds a 100-percent recycled polyester crossbody cord to it. I am a convert because the tab is pretty solid; I took my iPhone 17 camping with this cable so I wouldn’t accidentally leave it in the tent or on a picnic table in the rain, and it was secure and held up. The ends of the cord are also reinforced with metal tabs. It’s also cheaper than the dedicated Apple strap. So far, so good.*—Adrienne So*

**Satechi OntheGo USB-C Lanyard Cable:** I love the thick cord of Satechi's lanyard, and it's big enough to comfortably wear as a crossbody. You can adjust it to be a very small loop, too. Satechi also includes two types of connectors, black and clear, so that you can use it with clear cases. It elevates the bottom slightly, but this didn't pose any issues when I tried it with various cases. But the best part of this crossbody is that it pulls double duty. It's a USB-C cable! Remove the tethered caps from each end of the cable, and now you can plug your phone into a USB-C adapter or device to transfer data (480 Mbps) or charge (60W max). —*Julian Chokkattu*

## A 45-Watt Charger

Did you know your new iPhone can charge faster than ever? With a 40-watt charging adapter, you can get up to 50 percent in just 20 minutes. Your old charger will still be fine, but if you want the fastest speeds, I like this simple, no-frills charger from Anker. At 45W, it covers your bases and can even juice up a laptop like a MacBook Air. The prongs fold up, making it nice for travel, too.

I tested it with the iPhone 17 Pro and confirmed that the phone was receiving 35 watts when it was close to zero percent (the iPhone 17 Pro accepts up to 36 watts), which is great. My fast-charge speeds beat Apple's claims, though. The device went from 7 to 83 percent in 30 minutes. Wowza. Better yet, Anker includes a 6-foot USB-C to USB-C cable. —*Julian Chokkattu*

## Avoid These Cases

**Beats Kickstand Case:** This case is available for the iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Pro, and iPhone 17 Pro Max, but not the iPhone Air or iPhone 17e. We feel bad not recommending it because it's adorable, especially in pink, and the kickstand is super creative. Instead of embedding a kickstand into the case, the included lanyard has a pill-shaped kickstand that pops out. Place it on one of the longer edges of the iPhone, and voila, kickstand! The problem is that it doesn't work at all in portrait orientation, so it's limited as a kickstand case. Also, the polycarbonate case is shockingly slippery. We don't think we've ever used a case more slippery. Julian was so surprised that he showed his wife, and she immediately said, “Yeah, no, I don't like that.” That's probably why a lanyard is included.

**Mujjo Full Leather Wallet Case:** We like Mujjo's leather cases, but we don't really like the ones with a wallet sleeve embedded into the case itself. Firstly, the sleeve barely fits my card properly, let alone*three,* as the company claims. It's also really hard to take the cards out. While Mujjo has built-in magnets in the case, the magnetic connection is fairly weak because the sleeve interrupts it. Not to mention the fact that you have to remove your cards to actually use MagSafe. It just seems counterintuitive. Just get a MagSafe wallet at that point.

**Peak Design Gnar Case:** Peak Design finally came out with a new case design for its SlimLink system, and unfortunately, we don't like it. There are textured edges on the sides, but it isn't too grippy. The rubbery back feels out of place and picks up dust easily. There's a port cover, but it feels flimsy, and we worry about how it will hold up after a year of use. The case also adds significant height to the top and bottom edges of the phone, and we don't really want a longer phone. The lip around the screen is also very slim, so much so that my screen protector rises above it. You can do better for this price.

**Spigen Tough Armor Kickstand Case:** Yes, it's one of the cheapest kickstand cases around. But despite manufacturing this design for years, Spigen's kickstand*still* feels so flimsy, and it only works in landscape orientation. We have no idea how it's so hard to make a kickstand that does both. We're also not a fan of how the case looks.

**Smartish Wallet Slayer Vol. 1:** This is an odd case. The wallet sleeve on the back is really tight, and we had trouble stuffing two cards in. Taking them out isn't easy either because they get stuck on the edge. Smartish also advertises a kickstand, but there is no kickstand on the case. Instead, you're supposed to use your own credit card as the kickstand, which is just a little weird.

**UAG Trooper Case:** Cases are so good these days, which is why it's annoying when there's an obvious flaw in a design. UAG's Trooper is a rugged, tough case that is very bulky. Yet instead of adding a button for Camera Control, the company kept a cutout. But when the edge is so thick, it's genuinely hard to press this button, even if the back edge is sloped in. The volume rocker and Action Button are also hard to press.

**OtterBox Defender Series Case:** We can't fault this OtterBox Defender for doing what it does best: Being exceedingly durable. It has a belt holster, rugged bumper covers, a few different colors, and a two-piece frame. We*can* fault it for its infuriating Action Button flap, though. One of the neatest features of newer iPhones is the Action Button, and this case turns said button from a convenient, customizable companion into an inaccessible, cumbersome feature that requires two hands to use. Absolutely not.
