---
title: Five claims Trump made in primetime address not backed up by evidence
source_url: https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2026/jul/17/trump-claims-primetime-address
source_site: The Guardian
source_slug: guardian
scraped_at: '2026-07-17T21:05:50Z'
published: '2026-07-17T00:00:00Z'
description: US president offered litany of misleading and false claims during Thursday
  speech on alleged threats to US elections
image: https://i.guim.co.uk/img/media/b9eb8f72658402ed9ed2bd77543b7794693d8808/729_0_6192_4955/master/6192.jpg?width=1200&height=630&quality=85&auto=format&fit=crop&precrop=40:21,offset-x50,offset-y0&overlay-align=bottom%2Cleft&overlay-width=100p&overlay-base64=L2ltZy9zdGF0aWMvb3ZlcmxheXMvdGctZGVmYXVsdC5wbmc&enable=upscale&s=a6c565ab8038bea8f52a3517e83b4aa9
---

Donald Trump offered a litany of misleading and false claims during his Thursday speech on threats to US elections, and released previously classified documents to try to support his specious claims. In some cases, his claims were not supported by those documents. Here is a look at some of the key claims that could mislead the American public.

- ## 1. Claim: China hacked voter files- Trump claimed in his speech that China had illicitly acquired the voter information of 220 million US voters beginning in 2020. “That information includes names, addresses, phone numbers, political party preferences and other sensitive data that would be needed to register to vote and engage in other nefarious activities, which is exactly what was happening,” Trump said. - Nearly every US state allows members of the public to obtain public voter roll information. The information available varies by state, but many include a person’s party preference and address as part of what they release. - The documents released by the White House regarding this claim are heavily redacted and do not provide clear evidence to back up the president’s claim. One document says that someone acting on behalf of China downloaded commercially available voter registration information from at least six states in 2022. - Intelligence officials have long known about China’s efforts to collect voter data, according to the New York Times. Also, possessing that publicly available data does not mean that any votes were changed. - “We heard from officials saying that, because China had this voter data, which almost everybody has, they could change voter registration records, and they could vote on behalf of people. That is 100% false,” said David Becker, the executive director of the Center for Election Innovation & Research, who specializes in election administration. “I could have a list of all the students at a particular university. That doesn’t mean I can change their grades. And that’s what’s happening here.” 
- ## 2. Claim: Intelligence officials covered up information about China’s election meddling- Trump also claimed in his speech that US intelligence officials conspired to keep information about China’s election meddling from him. - In 2021, the National Intelligence Council released a report that concluded China had not interfered in the 2020 election. “We assess that China did not deploy interference efforts and considered but did not deploy influence efforts intended to change the outcome of the US presidential election,” the report says, adding that it had a high degree of confidence in that assessment. - Included in that report is a dissenting view from the national intelligence officer for cyber – identified by other news outlets as Christopher Porter – arguing China “took at least some steps to undermine President Trump’s re-election campaign” primarily through social media and public statements. The dissenting view agrees “we have no information suggesting China tried to interfere with election processes”. At least one document released as part of the tranche said Chinese actors had targeted Biden. - The documents released by Trump on Thursday show some debate about the language in the report and Porter questioning how to describe Beijing’s position before the 2020 election. “I am concerned about politics seeping into this,” he wrote in one message in September 2020. “I don’t disagree that the consensus view is most likely, but I strongly disagree that we can be so confident about it,” he added before a section of the document that is redacted. - Trump also seized on a snippet of an email in which one official said they were “massaging” the president’s daily intelligence briefing to keep out intelligence about Chinese election interference. “We have deliberately massaged our one pending - Trump also seized on what appears to be chat messages from an FBI official discussing a recalled intelligence report involving China. In one message, the FBI official says: “I’m basically running a shadow government across the FBI at this point.” But the messages lack context about what exactly the official was referring to. 
- ## 3. Claim: Venezuela hacked voting machines- Trump claimed Venezuela plotted to manipulate voting machines to rig that country’s presidential elections. While he didn’t say it directly, the claim was a gesture at a longstanding and debunked conspiracy theory that Venezuela hacked US voting machines in 2020. - A CIA note released on Thursday says intelligence officials “developed sustained interest and likely some capability in manipulating electronic voting systems, including Smartmatic technology, to influence electoral outcomes in Venezuela” (Smartmatic is an election equipment vendor only used in Los Angeles county). “While the intelligence validated significant concerns about foreign-linked voting technology vendors, it did not definitively confirm that large-scale electronic fraud was successfully executed in specific Venezuelan elections,” the note went on. - John Solomon, a Trump ally working with the White House to release the documents, told reporters on Thursday there wasn’t evidence Venezuela had tampered in US elections. 
- ## 4. Claim: There was voter fraud in Michigan in 2020 that wasn’t fully investigated- Trump claimed the Biden administration “slow-walked” and “killed” an investigation into whether a third-party group committed a crime by submitting fraudulent voter-registration applications in the critical swing state. - The case was publicly cheered by the far-right website The Gateway Pundit. But public reporting suggests that the case was hardly an example of systematic fraud. The local clerk in Muskegon, Michigan, told the Washington Post she had flagged the problematic registration applications. The Michigan attorney general referred the case to the FBI. - Documents released by the Trump administration showed that the FBI investigated the case throughout the Biden administration, including interviewing people who had worked for the group. As is typical in election investigations, FBI agents consulted with the justice department’s public integrity section, which authorized the investigation to move ahead. - It’s not exactly clear why no charges were filed. One document released on Thursday from September 2025 says “no further investigation is warranted because logical investigation and/or leads have been exhausted, and the investigation to date did not identify a criminal violation”. 
- ## 5. Claim: 278,000 noncitizens registered to vote- Trump said the Department of Homeland Security had identified 278,000 noncitizens on the rolls in California, Nevada, New Jersey and Pennsylvania. There are about 40 million registered voters in those four states alone. - The Department of Homeland Security did not reveal its methodology for identifying the noncitizens and how confident they were in their assessment. The tool the Department of Homeland Security uses to flag noncitizens on the voter rolls is known to be inaccurate. - Letters from the Department of Homeland Security sent Thursday to Nevada and Pennsylvania obtained by the Guardian also suggest that the government is much less certain that the people identified are actually noncitizens. The Nevada letter says the department identified as many as 15,903 noncitizens who were registered to vote, including 8,576 whose name, date of birth, address and social security number matched that of a noncitizen in its files. It did not say how it flagged the remaining potential noncitizens. - “These numbers are wildly speculative at best and the Department of Homeland Security hasn’t shared anything that backs it up,” Cisco Aguilar, the Democratic Nevada secretary of state, said in a statement. - Several studies have shown that voter fraud, including voter fraud by noncitizens, is extremely rare.
